When Ben Horowitiz and his partner Mark
Andre came into the venture capital
industry, it was very different than it
is today. You can argue that it is them
more than almost anyone else that has
reshaped this industry and matured it so
much ever since. Andre Horowitz has
become one of the most important
institutions, not just investors, but
institutions in the private investing
landscape, having achieved a scale that
no one thought was possible in venture,
which was always supposed to be this
small, tiny niche corner of the world.
This conversation is a bit unique
relative to some of the other ones that
Ben has had more recently. I tried to
understand the shaping forces and
influences in his life and the ways that
he thinks America most needs to change.
He's taken this as his life's mission to
build a firm that affects outcomes in
the country, not just in a small niche
part of the market, but very broadly,
even having discussions in this
conversation about his work with, say,
the Las Vegas Police Department, which
he's tried to infuse with technology to
lower crime rates across the system. I
hope you enjoyed this great and
wide-ranging conversation with Ben
Horowitz.
I think a fun place to begin, Ben, would
be your take on the state of the
country. Like what does it feel like to
you in 2026? I know part of your mission
is to like directly impact the
trajectory of the country. We'll talk
about that a lot. Yeah.
>> Uh but but begin with what does the
landscape, the playing field like to you
today? I think the tech sector is very
very healthy. America's competitiveness
is very very good. The entrepreneurship
culture is outstanding. Uh which you
know and that's the main thing I look at
from my lens. If you look at and I go
kind of all over the world and everybody
wants Silicon Valley like how can we
have Silicon Valley in the UK? How can
we have it in France? the thing that's I
would say lacking so they have a lot of
the ingredients right they have um great
uh talent um they've got great
universities they have like a definitely
a worse regulatory environment um in EU
increasingly bad regulatory environment
for entrepreneurship but there there's a
cultural challenge where
you know succeeding doing something
larger than yourself making the world a
better place like those aren't things
that
uh young people feel like society
values. And so the likelihood if you're
building a company of getting people to
kind of work for you and dedicate their
life to a mission like that is just not
that great. Whereas in the US, it's
amazing. I think the economy is in much
better shape than
>> people realize uh and start to see that.
Well, we're getting, you know, we've
done a lot of kind of things to
stimulate it. You know, we've got lower
energy prices. We've got much less
regulation. We've got kind of a more
user-friendly tax code. Um, and that's
all starting to kick in now. And then,
you know, from our perspective, I think
the bigger thing is AI is, um,
you know, it's going to impact
everything. There's almost no problem
you can think of that you can't go,
well, we have a real shot at solving
that with AI. It's from, you know, what
were the big problems in the US? Auto
deaths. Well, we got an AI solution for
that. Cancer, we have an AI solution for
that. So, you know, the fact that we've
got a technology where we can address
everything uh is a real new phenomenon
>> and and all that's I think going to kick
in like in a fairly major way over the
next 12 to 24 months. Why do you think
12 24 months is is a time frame worth
mentioning that some of this stuff will
start to be felt more broadly?
>> It's all kind of starting to take effect
now and you know it's got to roll out
get deployed. Now you know deployments
of technology in particular in the past
have taken a long time. Um but you know
you had to build out the infrastructure
to do it. So like for cars you needed
things like roads and traffic lights and
all that kind of thing. And for the
internet, you needed, you know, fiber in
the ground and, you know, people to have
smartphones and you needed to do a lot
just to get going. Um, the internet is
here. So, if you want to use AI, if you
want to apply it to your business, you
just do it. Like there is no
infrastructure that needs to be built to
adopt the thing.
>> What could most interrupt this good
trajectory that America is on where we
are building solutions using technology?
Like what are the biggest risks?
>> I think policy. One of the things my
father said to me was a bad government,
no matter how many smart people you
have, no matter how great a culture you
have, no matter how great the country
is, can ruin the whole thing. Venezuela
was the fourth richest country in the
world. Crazy, you know, and
>> then like, you know, communism and and
that's that. And
you know if you look at
how little comes out of so many of these
countries in Europe that have so many
smart people and then you know and then
the ones that went into communism and
there's so many like genius Romanian
entrepreneurs John vonman and the number
of great genius scientists that came out
of Hungary like this little country and
then like it was just gone once the
communists took over is like completely
like nothing from from inventing
everything to nothing overnight. And I
think that that can absolutely happen
here. We could outlaw AI. Like I think
there there were like pretty aggressive
proposals. The last Biden administration
executive order said that you could not
sell a GPU without federal government
approval. Like that was a real executive
order and it got reversed. But like we
were that close to being basically out
of the uh global chip game. So it's it
is fragile. By the way, like technology
solutions
work much better than policy solutions.
That's the that's the other thing. Like
policy solutions is very hard to make
anything work. Uh so if you think about
um you know co we could tell everybody
to stay in their house. Well that's got
some like extremely bad side effects.
you know, turned out not to work that
well or like, you know, we could invent
a drug that cures it or like a vaccine
that works. It's just hard to have or a
policy solution like, you know, all the
policy stuff on climate change, you
know, and Europe actually, you know,
reduced emissions and all that, but it
didn't do anything because like China
didn't reduce emissions. But if you
build a technology a really safe nuclear
efficient or nuclear fusion facility
then like that that would have a big
effect and I think in general that's
true that uh you know and police like
defund the police did not make anybody
safer technology does and so you know if
you really want to change the world if
you really want to make it a better
place I think you can build a solution
for darn near anything. If you want to
change the world for the better, it's
never been a better time to be an
entrepreneur.
>> I was with a uh local restaurant tour
yesterday here in New York, one of the
best, for a couple hours having him
describe to us how he is planning on
using AI tooling to improve everything
about his restaurant business. How do
you think about the way all of this is
changing the sort of potentially large
attractive businesses that you want to
invest in? Because there's been stick
with the restaurant example. Toast is a
great there's many great companies that
have been built in and around restaurant
software businesses. It seems like this
restaurant owner is going to be able to
have his own spun up operating system
specific to him not going to need any of
that stuff. How how is this changing the
way in which you view investment
opportunities
>> on the positive? Uh one everything is up
for grabs, right? I I think people are
kind of over uh reacting to that in the
stock market and so forth and that if
you look at um existing software
companies like people think, oh, they're
all dead. Well, some of these guys are
extremely hard targets. Like it's not
that easy to take out Salesforce or SAP.
You you you would be surprised um even
with AI like how much uh heavy lifting
that is. Having said that, it is true
that you know a lot of these things,
yeah, you can just make your own, you
can do it yourself. Uh it's going to be
a lot easier. That's a just like the
number of possible interesting companies
I think went up a lot. I think the other
thing we're seeing is the products work
so much better than any technology
products we've seen in the past that
revenue growth is so much faster for
these AI companies and there's many such
cases of companies coming out you know
cursor which is ostensibly an IDE like
what's the biggest ID before cursor like
I don't know but it wasn't big uh and it
took probably 12 or 15 years to get to
that revenue level and you know they
went over a billion dollars in revenue
like in no time. So that's super
interesting. I would say though from an
investing standpoint,
the laws of physics of company building
changed which is going to in affect
investing in what's currently I would
say an unknown way. So if you look at
the one thing you knew if you'd ever
built a software company is you cannot
throw money at the problem.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Like you know what's a man year? you
know, 700 IBMmers before lunch. Like
that uh you know, that phenomenon kind
of everything was built on because you
knew if somebody built a great product
and it took them three years and they
did it with a small team, Google's not
going to hire 2,000 engineers and catch
them. It's just not going to happen.
That was a law of physics. Now,
if you have uh the data and you have
enough GPUs, you can solve damn near
anything. and kind of we've seen that
with uh Elon catching the big models in
no time. I mean, he just took a lot of
money and a really good data center
design and some smart engineers. He's in
the game, you know, like he got in the
game very fast.
>> That would have never happened in the
past. The markets are also seem to be
much much much bigger than anything
we've ever seen. So it would cause you
to think about valuations and kind of
long-term value and other sorts of
things in a different way than we have
in the past. On the one hand, it's like,
well, when you calculate the long-term
value, what if this market wasn't, you
know, $50 billion? What if it was $5
trillion? And then on the other end,
well, what if somebody could catch you?
These are just concepts we've not dealt
with. So how would the conversations
feel different to me if I came in you've
got all these great investors working at
Andre and Horovitz the the the nature of
the conversation amongst your teammates
as they're debating this sort of stuff
versus four years ago or something where
where does it feel most materially
different internally
>> I would say one of the most different
things is when you look at AI
researchers it is really
a different kind of thing if you haven't
been at like Google or Facebook or open
AI or anthropic and like somebody gave
you hundreds of millions of dollars to
try and build a giant model and you
weren't like one of the main people,
then you probably don't know how to do
it because you can't learn it in school.
Um, and you can't learn it in school
because it's it's a little bit
alchemistic in nature. You know, you are
it's it's a little bit of an art. And so
if you've never done it before, the
chance of on your very first try of
building some kind of large model that
it's going to work well isn't that
great. Now that's,
you know, people are coming up to speed
more. There's more companies. Um, people
are learning it. But that's kind of why
you got to this, which from the outside
world probably looked absolutely bananas
that, well, why is somebody paying a
hundred million dollars for an AI
researcher or a billion dollars for an
AI researcher? Like, that's the craziest
thing I've ever heard.
Well, what if there were only 40 of them
like in the world?
>> And you have a$4 trillion dollar
company. Yeah, then it kind of changes
the math on it a little bit. And I think
that's sort of where we were because
it's kind of the first time we've had a
need for a technologist that academia
could produce. That um is kind of
probably one of the bigger things that
changed in the conversation is like who
are all these people? Like we track all
of them and you know know what they're
doing but uh it's very different.
>> Your finance team isn't losing money on
big mistakes. It's leaking through a
thousand tiny decisions nobody's
watching. Ramp puts guard rails on
spending before it happens. Real-time
limits, automatic rules, zero
firefighting. Try it at ramp.com/invest.
Every investment firm is unique and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street,
connected to your data, understanding
your process, and producing real
outputs. Check them out at
rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to Cursor to Perplexity use work
OS to become enterprise ready overnight,
not in months. Visit works.com to skip
the unglamorous infrastructure work and
focus on your product. Everyone talks in
venture about the power law. The thing
underneath the power law is a sort of
inequality. It seems like so many of the
things that are happening are just
massive multipliers on the trend of
inequality in every way. the billion
dollar researcher, the size of the
biggest companies, the wealth of the
people creating those companies. I would
argue that inequality is a feature, not
a bug of the American system. But yeah,
>> I'm curious for you to riff on like the
nature of growing inequality and the the
good and the bad associated with that.
what's happening in AI is sort of, you
know, I I would just say an extension of
the Kobe Bryant effect, which is um, you
know, a basketball player in uh,
whenever James J. Nay Smith invented the
game, you know, like there was a limited
amount of money you could make because
you basically played the game in front
of the people who could show up for the
game and that was it. That's the whole
market. Um whereas once you add
television and the global audience and
these kinds of things, you can get to
you know a much bigger you can be LeBron
James, you can become a billionaire and
that that just was not at all possible
before. And I think that uh you know we
kind of first saw that with the internet
where okay now I can build a product and
I can get to global distribution very
fast then all of a sudden I can become
like extremely rich and then AI is
another layer on top of that and that
okay now take that same product and make
it just more a valuable thing and so
whoever invents that is whatever the
internet company was plus+ and so that's
going to make them even richer. That's
the kind of bad part of it. I think the
good part of it is it starting out day
one like completely democratized like
the AI
anybody gets access to like very
powerful AI uh you know anybody who has
a phone and now everybody
most people in the world uh at this
point have smartphones and now you've
got like super intelligence uh in your
phone. So that's a big it's an equalizer
of the opportunity in a lot of ways that
I don't think we've ever seen a bigger
opportunity equalizer than AI. Um in
that every child can have like a super
advanced amazing tutor teacher. Um so
like education
great education is accessible to all
now. So I think it's an equalizing
technology and uh you know there's some
drive in inequality and this is another
thing I I learned from my father. He
said look son life isn't fair and that's
extremely good advice because it's just
not going to be fair. Like no matter
what government or anything tries to do
it's not going to be fair. And the
problem is if you create a system that
tries to correct that it doesn't make
things more fair. It just transfers all
the power to the person running the
system. And that's what happened with
Stalin. That's what happened with
Chescu. That's what happened with Pulp
Pot. That's what happened with Mao. You
know, not an accident that every single
system like that went bad because it
really ends up just being a power
transfer. When you think about, well,
what do you want? You'd like everybody
to have a chance, you know, like don't
give me no chance. Give me some chance.
Now, it may not be as big a chance as
the other guy. It may not be, you know,
like a perfect chance. Um, but if I have
the desire, if I've got some capability,
give me a chance to be something like to
make my imprint on the world. And
a system like that is going to end up
with a lot of inequality. All, by the
way, all systems end up with a lot of
inequality.
But you can try systematically to give
everybody an opportunity. And I think AI
does a really good job of that. One of
the memes that's very popular today is
that you have a couple years to get some
capital or you're going to be a part of
the permanent underclass is like the is
the phrase that is used on Twitter. And
I certainly agree that um now everyone
has the best lawyer, accountant, you
know, adviser in their pocket and that's
amazing. Um but what do you think about
this notion that we're just going
because of that we need less labor. We
need it's going to be harder if you
don't have some capital to begin with to
accumulate capital and break in. I don't
I don't necessarily believe that. I'm
just curious what you think about
challenges we'll face because of AI
society.
>> Yeah, I don't really think that's right.
I think that I don't think like the the
door is going to close behind you. I
think like the opportunities tend to
multiply
>> um when you kind of open up a new door
and open up like a new way of doing
things. We saw that with crypto. So many
people who made money on crypto were
like people who,
you know, literally didn't have much to
start with. they just got into the
technology early um and then they kind
of parlayed it up. And so if you have
something that grows really fast, that's
actually the opportunity for somebody
with a little bit of capital to make a
lot of money because it doesn't take
much. You know, if you bought Bitcoin
for a nickel, you did really well. Uh
and all you needed was a nickel. And
that's uh you know, I think that's the
nature of these things that go
hyperbolic. And you know particularly if
you create something I also think uh
the the labor market stuff
I think people are acting as though it's
very predictable and when it's not at
all predictable. So
if you look at kind of the history of
the of the world um and automation and
this is what it is. It's a kind of like
an automation technology. We've been
automating things since the agricultural
days. And in in those days, I think 95
or 96% of all jobs in the US were
agriculture. Almost all those jobs have
been eliminated. Um and the jobs we have
now the people doing agriculture
wouldn't even consider jobs. And so like
the idea that we could imagine all the
jobs that are going to come, you know,
sitting here, you know, that AI is going
to enable, I think is low. I think the
need for like more creativity jobs um is
going to go way up and the kind of need
for kind of jobs to process work for the
creatives will probably uh go down in
some ways but um I'm not even sure about
that. You know, we've had AI going right
imageet was what 2012 and then natural
language stuff and Burton and all that
was like 2015 and then you know chatbt
was 2022 and like where's where's all
the job destruction?
You know why hasn't it happened yet? And
why are you so [__] sure it's going
to happen next? And why are you so sure
no jobs are going to be created? I don't
think it's nearly as predictable as
people are are saying. How would you
describe the nature and scope of your
ambition over the next 10 20 years?
>> One of the things that I learned um so I
had a mentor who's a a great great CEO
by the name of Andy Grove. Um and he was
uh the CEO of Intel and he kind of
famously did the the major pivot of them
out of the memory business into the
microprocessor business. Maybe the
greatest tech CEO we've had. Uh and one
of the things that he he said that you
know in a way is very obvious but I
think is um also profound is if you're
the leader in the industry then the
growth of the industry is dependent on
you. Um like you it's up to you to
expand the market like nobody else is
going to do it. Uh and so when I think
about the firm I think of it a lot in
those terms. The reason America is
America and and there's many narratives
on this, but like I think the factual
one is like we won the industrial
revolution. We really did. We had Henry
Ford and we had Thomas Edison. We had
like great entrepreneurs. They built
great technology. The technology lead to
a military lead, led to an economic
lead, led to cultural dominance. None of
that was by accident. And had we not had
all those inventions, had all those
companies, um, which led to, you know,
everything from like winning World War
II, we just won't be, we'd be some other
thing. We won't be America. So, we're
there again. Like, this is the
equivalent change of the industrial
revolution in terms of how everything
works, governments, societies,
businesses. And you know, we're either
going to be uh the leader of that
technology, the provider of that
technology, or we're not. And if we're
not, we're not going to be um the
economic superpower, the military
superpower, the cultural influence, the
kind of standard of the world that we
are now. At least I think that would be
bad. I think you know uh America's been
kind of good for the world and good for
giving people a chance like we talked
about before and so our role in that you
know you know taking it try try and be
humble with the role but our role is
like from a policy standpoint from a
funding standpoint from a helping people
build standpoint to make sure that that
next set of great companies comes out of
uh America or allied nations a core
ambition is to do our part in kind of
helping that
>> I want to ask about some of the
ingredients to do that. Well, but just
as a quick sidebar on Andy Grove, uh his
book is incredible. Like everyone should
read High Output Management. Um what was
it about what what very specifically did
you learn from him? Like what did you
see him do that impacted the way that
you think or behave?
>> Well, like I'm so overly influenced by
him, it's hard to even pin it down. But
so high output management, you know, I I
actually wrote the new forward um for
it. Uh which I actually think that's the
best thing I ever wrote was a forward
high output management. Um, but the hard
thing about the reason I wrote that
forward was um I, you know, it was my
favorite book and I wrote uh the hard
thing about hard things was basically
intended to be um the updated version of
it. But the the thing in high output
management that um he did so well that I
I tried to you know kind of do my own
version of is
you know the the the concepts of
management are easy like
they you need an eighth grade education
maybe to kind of understand management.
It's not like physics. It's it's pretty
simple. Uh but the psychological part of
it is extremely difficult particularly
for a young person to be able to do. Uh
you know it's it's super
confrontational. You're having to kind
of look through the conversation you're
having to the entire organization. You
really have to be confusion at times.
The the good of the of the whole
supersedes the good of the individual.
uh and all these things are are really
complicated to do. His big influence on
me was me trying to not only absorb that
but then kind of tell it in a more
up-to-date kind of modern way. I went to
visit him. He had this award on the wall
which was it was literally like um
manager of the year from for the Santa
Clara facility of Intel and it was from
I don't know 1992. I'm like Andy we're
like the biggest CEO in the world like
why did they give you the manager of the
year award for the Santa Clara facility?
And he goes, "Oh man." He's like, "You
know, Santa Clara was like the always
scored like it was the lowest quality
scores, the lowest [__] score on
everything at Intel." And so I was just
like, "I'm going over there and talk to
them." So I go over there
and he said, "I brought a roll of toilet
paper and I put it under my desk, under
my chair." And you know, I said like,
"When are you going to get this facility
up to code?"
And they just started in with all this
[__] [__] [__] [__]
[__] And I [__] reached under my
chair and put all the toilet paper up. I
said, "Clean up your [__]
and tell me when the [__] you're going
to be up to code." And in two months,
they were up to code. and they were
always the highest rated facility
thereafter you know just on that. Uh so
they gave them manager of the year for
that.
>> When did you first experience the
lessons that drove his success this
confrontational psychologically
difficult aspect of management yourself?
How would you encourage other people to
like get a get a taste of it? You can't
just read about it. Obviously
>> what happens uh to founders is you
invent something right now. I've got to
build a company. you don't know what
you're doing and you make mistakes and
then those mistakes really cost the
company and you lose confidence and that
leads you to hesitate and that
hesitation is what kind of causes the
failure mode. So then either like the
company's indecisive or they get very
open. All these guys got so open to
input from their team and their
executives and like but you know the
team doesn't have the full context. Only
the leaders got the context. So even if
they're smarter than you, you still
likely can have better judgment because
you have all the knowledge. Um, but you
know, they defer and then if you defer
to people who work for you, then that
kind of creates a weird political
situation because people jump into the
vacuum of like, you're not making the
decision, I'll make the decision. And
then that feels political to everybody
else. And so that's the pattern people
run into. And so, you know, you really
kind of have to build up enough
confidence in them to have that
confrontation. The hardest version of
this, by the way, is the reorg. Uh
because reorg is basically you're
redistributing power to make the company
work better, to like have communication
be better, to not have as much conflict.
But what's going to happen is somebody
who's really good, who you've had for a
long time, is going to lose power and
they're going to be [__] pissed. Um
and so then if you compromise the
organization so they can maintain their
power then you've just kind of
redistributed power from the people
doing all the work to the executives and
that's a catastrophe. So it's always
that kind of thing where people don't
want to have that conver confrontation.
They don't want to tell that person look
the organization's here. you you helped
us tell here, but like you either have
to be happy in this new role or it's
going to be a rap. When you're young and
inexperienced, you know, it's going to
hurt to like tell him that, but I don't
know it's going to help me to do this
reorg because I don't I'm not
experienced enough to know that. I've
never done that before. And so I'm going
to go with the known avoid hurt to the
to the theoretical avoid hurt. Um, and
that's when you wreck your company. And
and and so that's the pattern. And I,
you know, I always do my best to like
lend them my experience on that.
>> You you were lucky that when you started
Andre and Horwitz, you and Mark had both
had tons of operating experience both
together.
>> Yeah. I still didn't know what I was
doing as CEO.
>> Fair enough.
>> And he didn't know what he was doing
either. Like his ideas now, like if you
ask Mark about management now, like he's
so different than how he actually did
it. Um, and it actually makes him mad if
you talk about it too much because he's
like, "I got such bad [__] advice.
They told me to hire all these guys."
How do you think he's most different?
Like what would he say is or what do you
observe to him to be the most different?
>> I just think he's like way more um
in control of his own. Like Mark is
super emotional person. Um and he's just
way more in control of it than he was
then. Uh just in terms of just like the
personality. He used to be like zero or
100, right? Like so he would be like
full of emotion like what the [__] are
we doing? or like I'm just not gonna say
anything like but nothing in between.
>> Something I know the least about about
your firm is like the first I don't know
what period of time three days, three
months, three years.
>> And I'd love to hear about how you
thought about the business right as it
was getting started. Of course, we're
I'm going to come back to what it is now
and and those ingredients you mentioned
for having the impact you want to have.
But uh lots of this is an incredible
part of the world. Silicon Valley, Wall
Street, you know, these are institutions
that make America great. Lots of people
listening have ambitions to do this sort
of thing. And I'd love to hear like the
very very ear early primordial case
study. Yeah.
>> Of what it was like and what kinds of
conversations you were having and what
your initial ideas were.
>> So venture capital, first of all, you
kind of have to understand the the
context of it was um there hadn't really
been new top tier venture capital firms.
So like the the last one before we
started that you would say is top tier
was probably Benchmark which ostensibly
started in 1995 but it didn't really
because all those guys came from another
firm called Merryill Pickard
>> and that firm was like from the 80s and
there there hadn't really been a new one
from the 80s and if you looked at why
every VC was kind of reputationbased and
so to be top tier you had to have
invested in Apple and Cisco and Google
and you know Yahoo and all the great
companies and you can't from a standing
start get to that and then if you're not
top tier in VC you're not going to last
because yeah in a super hot period
everybody makes money but the best
entrepreneurs will only work with the
top tier firms because that's how you're
going to recruit great engineers that's
how you're going to get follow-on money
like everything comes out of that so
you'd never take money from a tier two
if you could get it from tier one and so
That's why the tier ones always have
better returns. Um, so we knew we had to
be tier one, but we had that problem.
And the idea that we had was, well,
venture capital is a great product for
LPs, um, but it's not a great product
for entrepreneurs. And so, if we could
build a better product for
entrepreneurs, then we could win. And
that was like the the original kind of
framework. And the idea that we had for
the product for entrepreneurs was you
know because we had been entrepreneurs
was around what you and I had been
talking about which is well
if you're like a founder who wants to
run their own company you're not getting
much like you need so much you don't
have the confidence you don't have the
knowledge you don't have the knowhow you
don't have the network. Um what if we
built a firm that like was designed to
give you enough confidence, power,
network reach, advice that you could
actually be a CEO. And so that was the
whole idea behind the firm originally.
And then the second idea we had, which
was the other thing, like VCs didn't
ever market themselves at all because if
you're all based on your investing track
record, it's best that it's just magic.
Like why say anything? Like keep that a
secret. And so they weren't talking. And
so when we went out and talked, like
everybody covered it. So we instantly
everybody knew we had this product.
>> Where did that where did the germ of
that specific idea come from? like let's
be fairly loud relative to what others
do from the very beginning.
>> Well, it's funny because you know Mark
and I were talking about it. He said to
me, he's like why don't VCs market and
actually it the original thing went all
the way back to kind of the first uh
class of VCs which were the investor
revolution VCs were JP Morgan,
Rothschild, Goldman Sachs etc. right
like they were the ones financing these
things. Um, and it turned out that
these guys were financing both sides of
World War II. Um, and so they really
didn't want any publicity because that
would have been like an extremely
[__] bad uh thing. To a large extent
that just carried over all the way
through Arthur Rock and
>> and all these things and then, you know,
the reputation thing clicked in and it
was working, so there was no need to do
it. Um, and we got a lot of criticism
when we did it. our LPs would say, you
know, like the other VCs say, you guys
are egoomaniacs. You name the firm after
yourself. You're marketing it like this.
And it was so funny because the reason
we named the firm after ourselves is
when we try we raised money in 2009,
which is right on the, you know, edge of
the financial crisis. And the big
objection from LPS was, well, like you
guys are like really good entrepreneurs.
You're just going to leave this thing
and go build another company and then
we're going to be stuck with the fund.
And we couldn't get them off of that.
And so then I had the idea. I was like,
"Well, why don't we just name it with
our names and then they know we're
safe."
>> Yeah.
>> And and that worked.
>> As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
and scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. visit ridgelineapps.com
to see what they can unlock for your
firm.
>> Um, if you think about the the period of
takeoff of the firm in 2009 up until you
reach, let's call it like cruising
altitude, like when was cruising
altitude and and and what was the most
difficult part about getting it from
takeoff to that point?
>> Well, I mean, the first thing is we
really didn't know that much about
investing. Mark and I had done some
angel investing, but we not neither of
us had any venture capital experience.
And like you know, credit to Sequoia,
credit to, you know, Greylock and and
and Kleiner and all the guys who were
around at that time, you know, they just
had years and years of of doing it. We
made more than our fair share of
investing,
mistakes, you know, missing things we
should have done and and then, you know,
doing things that we shouldn't have
done. Um, but missing things that we
should have done was probably the bigger
one. And
you know and then the other thing is is
that kind of how we thought about the
profile of the investor was wrong. So we
so overindexed on our idea that we had
to help the founder uh become a CEO that
we made it a requirement that you
couldn't be an investor at Andre and
Horowitz if you hadn't like founded and
or run a company. And that, you know,
was a very good attitude and and set the
culture of the firm in a lot of ways and
had good uh things that came from it.
But I would just say that like most CEOs
aren't as interested in investing as
they think they are. Uh and then also
most CEOs aren't as good at helping
somebody else learn the job. Uh and so
those two things ended up being, you
know, not quite correct. Uh, so we made
some adjustments, you know, fund one
just went really well because we, you
know, we hit the scene hard. It was a
small fund. We did Skype, we did Slack,
we did Octa. I mean, like, there was
Stripe was in there. Like, so like there
were just too many good things in a $300
million fund for that thing not to blow
the doors off. Fund two wasn't as good
as one. Um, and then by the time we got
to three, that's when we had uh the
contention among like, oh, we really
don't have the right profile for GP
here. Uh, and there was a while where we
thought that was going to be a terrible
fund. It ended up being a great fund
because we had, you know, Coinbase and
Data Bricks and Lyft and GitHub, but
that that one was scary for a while, but
coming out of that, we kind of knew
what the firm needed to be. Uh, and so I
think it was settled down after that,
you know, it wasn't such a like startup.
It was like, okay, we got across that
chasm. But then the bigger thing was we
always had this idea about software is
eating the world. um and you know which
is Mark articulated really well in his
uh 2011 piece. And so we always felt
like venture capital firms
needed to be able to scale uh and that
the other firms would have trouble
scaling because of uh the way they
worked, the way they shared control. Um
so that could be an opportunity for us.
Um but we hadn't figured out how to do
it yet. And then I'd say um starting
with like the bio and the crypto fund I
started to get to the kind of
organizational picture of how we would
become um be able to address every
market of technology. Uh and but with
investing teams that weren't 20 people
like that doesn't work. So you need an
investing team of like four or five
people but you you have to you can't
address the whole technology market with
five people. So you have to have
multiple teams. Having multiple teams in
a venture capital firm, it was a little
bit of a novel idea particularly when
each team has like a platform that helps
the founder build the company. And so we
began it really in earnest with the
crypto fund I think like around 2018 and
then uh and you know now the whole firm
is kind of organized that way. If you
think if we zoom now to today and back
to what you said which is that the scope
of your ambition is big as the leader be
the one to help be the ones that are
expanding the market. What are the
components of doing that? Like what is
the system need that it doesn't
currently have that you might be able to
provide? One is um the the capital
markets are have changed you know
dramatically with
not much um
help. So I went public at 18 months old
with $2 million in trailing revenue.
That wasn't a good idea. But companies
used to go public routinely with $50
million in revenue. It was fine. Um you
know now nobody's going public
>> a billion, right? like you you get to go
public or something like that and if and
you're kind of small if you don't have
that and so you kind of need a lot more
out of the private markets than VCs are
built to do and so you know that's one
of the kind of things we have to think
about. Another one is the companies in
the portfolio
you know they'd leave you at 100 million
in revenue. They're going public.
They're out to the races. Well that's
not true anymore. And so what do you
need when you get to be 200 million 300
million in revenue? Well, you need to be
multi-product, you need to be multi-
channelannel, you need to be multi-
geography. Um, so as a venture firm, you
know, we need to help them and as a
venture industry, we need to help them
do that. Like how do I get to Japan? How
do I uh get to South America? Like
most venture firms don't provide much
along those lines. So we kind of have to
step up to those ideas if we're going to
have companies in the portfolio at that
stage.
>> Do you hope that over time your firm and
maybe some others like it that have
become these big institutions and
venture go on to be sort of like the
Blackstone you know Apollo type
companies that are big publicly traded
you know enduring businesses.
>> A big huge wave in among venture
capitalists is uh private equity AI
rollups. It's a good business idea like
a really good business idea which is
okay
you know just like the spreadsheet kind
of created the original private equity
business AI is kind of creating a new
private equity business where you can
buy any existing company optimize it
with AI and it'll be more valuable.
That's a good idea. It's a good thing to
invest in. It's not something we're
going to do for two reasons. Um, one,
it's like the cultural opposite of who
we are. So, we're about building new
things, um, growth,
believing in the entrepreneur, price
doesn't even matter. As long as the
thing succeeds, you're going to do well.
Private equity is like entry price is
key. like the I mean know I I had a
great dinner with Mark Rowan who's a
super genius uh runs Apollo and he was
like entry price entry price entry price
you know we never even think about that
we think about it but it's not like
first and foremost at all like thinking
about containing cost and this and that
and the other that's just not like what
a good venture capital frame of mind is
so like culturally I didn't want to mix
those two things but more than that like
I just didn't want to be in a business
where the way you make money is you
figure out how to optimize an existing
thing and you know lay off people and
that kind of thing. We're about like new
technology companies building the future
um taking things forward and I'll leave
that to the other smart guys in the
industry.
>> What if any trade-offs ex feel like they
might exist at this scale as you
continue to scale as you consider all
these different people you're trying to
serve? Well, the investors internally,
the LPs, the founders, so many people
need to nothing's perfect. like what
what are the trade-offs to the path that
you've chosen?
>> I think you know with any scale of
organization you really have to over pay
attention to culture um or the culture
will drift. We probably spend um more
work on that than than any venture
capital firm. I'm like you're not
allowed to join unless you sign the
culture document. I I spend an hour with
every single employee teaching them the
culture. Like it's like that level of
investment. Um, and then you know we
really try to enforce it uh hard when we
can and you know we have pretty good
consistency but like that's that is hard
to maintain as you grow.
>> Can you teach me more about culture? The
the you've written a book about it.
You've you've built them. You've studied
some very interesting cultures that you
wrote about in the book. if you had to
teach a seminar or something on like
what a culture is in the first place and
then how to design one given what you do
and who you are and then how to you know
make sure it it people live by it.
>> Let me give you kind of like the
a small but like the probably the most
important insight which is from Bashidto
the way of the warrior from the samurai.
Uh a culture is not a set of ideas. It's
a set of actions. Um, and so if you
define your culture as a kind of set of
ideas, integrity, do the right thing, we
have each other's backs or any kind of
like these ideas, they call them
corporate values, it's actually just a
bunch of [__] platitudes, it doesn't
mean anything. The culture has to be
defined in terms of the exact behavior
that you want that support that idea.
What do you have to do to actually be
that thing that you want to be? And so,
and it's the little things, you know,
how responsive are you to your
colleagues? What's the SLA on returning
a Slack message or an email? Do you show
up to meetings on time? Um,
and and this is like not everybody has
those ideas, but if you want that idea,
it's got you've got to manifest it
through something else. So, like we have
an idea about like you have to respect
the entrepreneur. Well, what is that
behavior? Like one, you can't ever be
[__] late to a meeting with an
entrepreneur. I used to find people $10
a minute in the beginning of the firm to
reinforce it. And then uh you know, you
have to get back to an entrepreneur. If
you say no, like you have to say no. You
have to explain why you're not
investing. Um and you know, it has to be
clear. And we're going to survey that
entrepreneur after you um say no to make
sure that you said no and that they had
a good experience. So like that that's a
behavior. If you uh try to make yourself
look good by making an entrepreneur look
bad, you're fired. So like you get on X
and say, "Oh, he's selling dollars for
85 cents." No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
We're dream builders. We're not dream
killers. [__] that. We're Somebody wants
to do something larger than themselves.
Build a company, you know, make the
world a better place. We're for that. we
don't give a [__] what the idea is, you
know, and or if Sequoia funded them or
whatever. We'd love that. That that's
who we are. And so the behavior
is the culture is the actual thing and
that gets you the idea as opposed to the
idea and then figure out how you're
going to behave. And so that's probably
the main thing on culture.
>> Can you say more about the influence
your dad had on you? You mentioned that
lesson of nothing's fair or life isn't
fair.
>> Yeah.
>> Tell me about your dad. He was what's
known as a red diaper baby. Uh he uh my
grandparents were communists. Like they
went to secret meetings. They had cards.
My grandfather was fired during the uh
McCarthy era from being a a junior high
school teacher um you know for being a
communist. And he grew up a communist.
And he started out um on the left. He
was uh editor of a there's very famous
new left magazine called Ramparts
magazine which he was editor of and he
uh
you know was involved in the the Black
Panthers with Huey Newton and um you
know the Oakland chapter Eldrich Clever
and he sort of dropped out of politics
and he reemerged
um I guess probably eight years later on
the right. He really understood kind of
the ills of communism and socialism
which which helped me a lot. Like one of
the things that he said to me that uh
always stuck with me. He's like, "Son,
go to the library,
pick any book on socialism. There's
hundreds of books. And in that book, I
guarantee you, you will find page upon
page, chapter upon chapter of how to
divide the wealth. You will not find a
single sentence on how to create how to
make it." And I was like, "Oh, wow.
That's not like a very good system, is
it?" I learned a lot about systems
thinking from that uh which I you know
ended up being I'd say very helpful to
me as uh CEO. He wasn't like uh you know
this this this new age father he wasn't
like that you know in the old days your
father like they wouldn't even talk to
you till he got to be like 12 and uh you
know and then you get these little
snippets of wisdom and like one of the
ones I actually put in the hard thing
about hard things but I had uh you know
I had three kids I was young um and I
remember there's like 102 degrees the
air condition was broken the kids were
going crazy like one of them poured a
whole bottle of apple juice like a
gallon of apple juice into the rug
Apple juice is steaming out of the car.
But I'm just sitting there looking like
I was going to die. And my father looks
at me and he goes,
"Son,
you know what's cheap?" I said, "What?"
He goes, "Flowers.
Flowers are cheap." I said, "Okay." He
said, "You know what's expensive?" I
said, "No, what?" He said, "Divorce."
And, you know, he had been uh married
four times, so he knew what he was
talking about.
>> Yeah. As you look out today in the
world, I'm curious what things are
captivating you most and maybe even like
most inspiring you. You get you have
such an interesting perch. You get to
see
>> so much at the frontier.
>> What's going on in coding now is like
quite phenomenal. You know, like we kind
of went through this period where like,
okay, AI can write code, cool. Okay, you
can vibe code stuff with a lot of
security holes, fine. Um, but I think
over the break, over the kind of winter
break,
it turned a corner where like really
really good programmers were going,
"Whoa,
>> oh god,
>> this is this helps me."
>> Like I just became a hundred times more
productive and I can't remember any kind
of
>> technology where like just all of a
sudden you wake up and everything the
whole world just changed like that. And
that's happening on a
pretty regular basis I would say. And
then you know you know we spent a bunch
of time with uh people in Hollywood who
are using AI. I think AI will help you
make movies both better and at much
lower cost because you can do you know
you can shoot a scene and then have the
AI do a variation of that scene. That's
very very good. Um, and so you don't
have to do, you know, the really like if
you're an actress, you have to shoot a
scene like 15 or 20 times or something.
Uh, wouldn't it be nice to shoot it
three times and then you just like take
the pieces you like and make it what you
want? Uh, so it's I I think it's a
little underestimated as a tool for
creatives. I think um, and I think
that's true in music, too. You know, I
was uh kind of a young person when
hip-hop started and
the the huge criticism like this is not
music. They're just taking music and
they're like remixing it um and they're
rapping over it and it's a bunch of
[__] like it's a novelty. But it was
postmodern art and I think we're going
to get into uh kind of postmodern art
with like what people will be able to do
with AI and music. And that was like one
of the most exciting
times in music. Like the invention of
the new art form is when it gets really
exciting.
>> What people in hiphop specific people
have had the largest impact on you
personally and and how? Nas is a very
good friend of mine and um he uh
he's definitely had a big impact. Just
the the lens at which
he sees the world is so
different um and interesting for me. So
we're both like very big fans of Rock
Kim who is kind of like the John Cold
Train of rap. So, Rak Kim had one of his
first big song was a song called My
Melody. And uh Nas and I are listening
to My Melody and the the first line is
turn up the bass, pull up a chair, hand
out a cigar, I'm letting knowledge be
born. I'm my name. And so he puts it on,
hands out a cigar. Uh and he pauses it
and he goes, "Ben,
why is he handing out a cigar?" And I
go, "I don't know why." Then he plays an
line. I'm letting knowledge be born. and
he's like, "It's a birth bin. He's
passing out cigars at the birth of
knowledge." And I was like, "Oh [__] I
listen that song a thousand times. I
never heard that." Um, and
I can't tell you how many times like he
sees or hears something uh that's there
that I don't see. So having, you know,
somebody that I can talk to who has just
like a completely different perspective
of all things in life. Um, and it was
interesting, you know, uh, we did the
Coinbase deal together, uh, and he had
called me like two weeks prior to us
really kind of, um, seeing that, uh,
because he wanted to learn about
Bitcoin. So, you know, I explained to
him how it worked and, you know, he was
very interested. And then, uh,
you know, when I was talking to Chris
Dixon, who was working on the deal, I
was like, "Tell me about the guys." And
he's like, "Well, you know, one of them,
Fred, is like really into hip-hop." I
was like, "Okay." And so, you know, I
brought Nas over over to my it's like
have him come over to my house. There's
a boxing match on Saturday. You know, I
had Nas come over and like that's how we
got that deal. Um,
>> wow.
>> But, uh, yeah, he he's just like a I
would say a big influence on me
personally. And then he's such a you
know I um you know I as a whatever as a
leader and so forth like storytelling is
and a writer um is important to me and
he I I think he's one of the great
storytellers of all times you know like
just a super genius on that.
>> Is there a CEO comparable to Nas where
you know there's this class of guys in
the 90s where Jay-Z you know I'm not
just a businessman I'm a businessman.
Um, and there were these just massive
franchises that got born. These guys all
became incredibly successful in the
business world. And it it felt more um
like industrialized almost like the
whole process whereas not like even just
his album that just came out is it it
feels just like Ilmatic feels like it
could have come out then or now. It's
like this weird timeless quality. He
still has that somehow. And like
Premiere, same thing.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you know anyone else like that in
another domain? He seems like such a
unique
>> person relative to his peers.
>> Maybe Jensen Jensen has like this like
very defined, you know, agree with it or
not, but it's like this view of
who he is, what the company is, and so
forth that's kind of gone
across
eras. Um,
but it's still the same thing, right?
Like it's not that like it played in
gaming, it played in Bitcoin, it plays
in AI, but it it's still Nvidia. Like
it's not he never thought he had to
change the name of the company. He's
gotten better over the years, but in a
weird sense, it it never felt like he's
trying to be current,
which like Nas never kind of feels like
he's trying to write a hit.
>> Can you tell the story of the work
you're doing with the Vegas Police
Department? And I'm asking about this
one because it's super interesting, but
also because it feels like uh an
interesting different kind of example of
what the application of this
constellation of new technologies might
allow for in terms of improvement
efficiencies. You know, it's just such
an interesting case study.
>> A couple things about the Las Vegas
Police Force were intriguing to me. The
biggest one was uh they they're kind of
they were different than other police
forces in the country because they're a
big metropolitan area that's not run by
the chief of police, but run by the
sheriff. And the reason that's important
is the sheriff uh is an elected official
and does not report to the mayor. So
they never got caught in the big
political movement and defund the police
and they were the one of the only cities
that didn't reduce the police budget or
anything like that. So they kind of
stayed intact and they're also
interestingly the one or the one that I
knew that never militarized and they do
community policing and you can see it in
the numbers. So the murder clearance
rate in Las Vegas is the highest murder
clearance rate meaning they they uh
solve the murder 94%.
>> And you know I think San Francisco is
like 75% and then Chicago's like in the
30s and the national average is below
60. And I asked him, I said, you know,
why why is your murder clearance rate so
high? And the sheriff, Kevin McMahill,
said, "Ben,
you know, when somebody is murdered,
there's always somebody who knows who
did it. They just don't talk to the
police." So, but they talk to us because
we're part of the community. Like, they
know us. And so, I was like, "Wow,
that's a great kind of environment to
see if this new technology worked." And
I knew about all the public safety
technology because we invested in
through American dynamism. So I I was
like, look, we're going to become the
highest tech police force in America,
hopefully the world, and I'm just going
to fund it. And so I bought, you know,
we've got a drone program and we've got
u, you know, prepared 911 and we've got
flag safety, you know, AI cameras. If a
an emergency call, if a 911 call comes
in or if a gunshot goes off, there will
be a drone deployed in there within 90
seconds. And then that drone uh video
feed will be in every police officer's
phone in the vicinity like instantly.
Since we started the program, I think
crime is down over 50%. Um and then uh
you know shooting of suspects by police
is down like close to 75%. But
everybody's safer. And I think this is
the thing that that was the most
surprising to me on the technology
deployment um is that so when you talk
to the police they go look the problem
is the descriptions cause like half the
violent confrontations. I'm like well
what do you mean? So somebody jacks a
car. There's a baby in the back seat. We
get a description of the car. It's a
2004 Hyundai that's blue. Well, it's
really a 2008 Hyundai that's green. But
we pull a guy over in a 2004 Hyundai
that's blue and you know that person has
had bad experiences with the police and
you know now he's got a gun in the car
and all of a sudden we've got an
incident and like an innocent citizen
gets harmed or police gets shot with AI
camera. We know that's the car. That's
it. Uh, and we know there's a baby in
the car. And so we're not sending one
guy with a gun to see if that's the guy.
We're sending a whole squad. Um, and
we're apprehending them safely. And so
everything um about like policing is
inherently dangerous, but intelligence
makes it dramatically safer. And so I'm
a huge believer in this technology for
making everybody safer. You know,
suspects, criminals, citizens, police,
everybody. The other kind of uh knock on
effect is it's kind of put the pride
back into policing. We used to have a
big problem in Vegas where uh you know
because nobody wanted to be a police
officer, we were lowering the standard,
but now the standard is really high. So
between the drone center, which is like
super state-of-the-art, and then you
have these um cyber trucks that look so
like amazingly futuristic and cool
driving around like everybody wants to
be a police now. And Las Vegas happens
to have the highest concentration of
veterans uh in the country. So plenty of
like super qualified people to choose
from. They all want to be police. Uh
it's so that's all gone really well.
>> The last question I ask everyone is the
same. What is the kindest thing that
anyone's ever done for you?
>> A mentor of mine, a fellow by the name
of Ken Coleman, who uh was a big
executive at Silicon Graphics. And when
I was um
uh I guess a sophomore in college, uh I
got an introduction into him and uh he
gave me a job as a summer intern. And
without that job,
I don't know that I ever get to Silicon
Valley or or that whole thing. So I
would say that's probably that that was
the highest impact. Just he didn't have
to do that thing that anybody did for
me.
>> It may interest you that that is the
most common form of answer. uh across
500 of these someone that like took a
bet when they didn't need to. Ben,
pleasure to finally do this with you
after a couple years of uh of watching
you and and learning from you. So, thank
you so much for your time.
>> Thank you, Patrick. It was fun.
>> You know how small advantages compound
over time. That's true in investing and
just as true in how you run your
company. Your spending system is your
capital allocation strategy. Ramp makes
it smarter by default. Better data,
better decisions, better economics over
time. See how at ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Every investment firm is unique and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street
connected to your data, understanding
your process, and producing real
outputs. Check them out at
rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to cursor to Perplexity use work
OS to become enterprise ready overnight,
not in months. Visit workos.com to skip
the unglamorous infrastructure work and
focus on your product. Ridgeline is
redefining asset management technology
as a true partner, not just a software
vendor. They've helped firms 5x and
scale, enabling faster growth, smarter
operations, and a competitive edge.
Visit ridgidelineapps.com
to see what they can unlock for your
firm.